good okay we were good in cool welcome
everyone to the ipfs weekly cool 416
I am aching brain I will be your host
we've got a fun-filled 23 minutes for
you today we're going to talk about all
the cool stuff that were working on
Terry Perry goes hello for one second so
I decided to make people aware we have
working groups which you've seen and we
also have some special interest groups
and one of those is the local offline
collaboration group which I've pasted
some relevant links in the documentation
that this is a group that um Molly
started and I picked up the leadership
of where people who are interested chat
about how ipfs could better support
local and offline collaboration and so
there are a lot of people talking about
things like how to use mesh networks to
solve in disaster situations those kinds
of things I'm pretty pretty wide width
but this is one of my favorite calls we
actually do this monthly and you can
find in our issue queue you find a an
issue for each upcoming event so for
example this week on Wednesday we'll be
talking about some of the unique needs
of Native communities in the US that
have limited internet access last week
Yanis gave us a demo of data hub we've
also looked at the gathering up that was
shown at UM my PFS camp and if anybody
wants to catch up he has another across
you can find our YouTube channel that
has recordings you can see we're pretty
well attended we got lots of basis I
know a little Brady Bunch thing so just
wanted to make sure people are aware of
this if you're interested in offline use
cases this is a great option for kind of
that overlap between ipfs and local
offline collaboration but the other
thing I wanted to just call out which is
related but not identical focus is the
offline first community host an event
called offline camp which
the next iteration is happening in just
under two weeks so we start on September
27th we'll be in Oregon this is an event
that kind of moves around to different
places but this is a retreat for 30-ish
folks together and talk about offline
first use cases so some people are using
D Web approaches some people are using
more traditional web approaches to
handle all of these challenges there's
so many cool use cases to talk about and
it's really discussion based so we talk
about for everything from the challenges
that we're facing to specific
implementation solutions to cool use
cases and so awesome awesome event feel
free to check that out we do have
scholarships available so if the ticket
price would be a problem for you feel
free to apply Molly and Michael and I
will be there in a couple weeks so I'm
looking forward to that does any man
have questions about either these things
that I can help with okay that's no good
cool thanks Terry I want to talk a
little bit about the new ipfs release
process
we're China sure our processes introduce
a little bit more rigor and so we go
through a number of stages so this is
the the release issue which kind of
outlines the outlines the new process
say if you look at it you'll see the
resep through a number of stages from
ensuring that everything run the CIO and
all the pests which is kind of like your
basic level zero software development
but then we can start running the test
suite so firstly internal applications
and then the external applications which
is going to be quite good so at the
moment right now I'm trying to fix some
problems with all their DB that we would
have caused that we're not going to
cause because I'm gonna fix the problems
before we release it which is great so
if you would like your application to be
added to that list people on the
Internet please do visit the IGF JFS
repo and PR your application into the
early tester program doc this will mean
that we will open PRS on your repos when
new release candidates are available
which you can then run through your own
CI and make sure that you're not gonna
get any surprises we can also then kind
of assist with debugging the problems
and because we know what we need to
change so we can we can help
that would be super useful anyone got
any questions are you already doing this
Howell's how far are you into a release
process so we are doing this we are this
is this is the first of three of trying
it we are currently in stage 2 community
dev testing
those the list of community dev testers
here's a little sin for we are doing it
so pleased you came Vil
any other question anybody else got
anything they'd like to talk about I was
gonna say that there is a team in a give
s dedicated to improving the response
times and stability or CI campus so IO
public HTTP to ipfs gateway and one
thing that happened for us recently was
we enabled the ipfs experimental quick
support across all the nodes in the
Gateway and that was cool so the Gateway
has to do a lot of work and no small
amount of that is pulling traffic via
bit swap between IP this cluster nodes
that hosts a lot of our content and the
16 gateway machines that are scattered
around the world across a different data
centers so with so much traffic going
back with a void wealth going from
cluster to Gateway just enabling quick
on both ends of that pipe set things up
quite nicely
quick for anyone who isn't following
along with experimental new protocols is
udp-based quick to two round-trip
handshake SuperDuper it's going to the
future of HTTP HTTP 4 or 7 I think it's
going to be so we live up there and
Wells is happening just tweaks to nginx
config to make sure that we're doing all
the good work development things like
enabling compression on web fonts
watching people's web hosting web tests
that go from C to a on compression run
and we there's stuff that we haven't
announced yet but things in the
Piper like public statist ages around
how are our gateways doing because we
recognize that it's a really significant
part of the infrastructure and so we
want people to have much greater
observability into what's happening to
them and and also coming up with the
fair use policy because it is a giant
public service that we run and its main
purpose is to bridge legacy to length
that only speaks HTTP with the IPS pivot
of future so we want it to be available
for everyone all the time for everything
but we want to make sure that regular
regular users have a better quality of
service than people who decide to
release applications that absolutely
hammer the Gateway because they haven't
gotten around to running that own one
yes so these are all things that are in
the pipe that we're gonna be working on
and have been working on for the last
few weeks and so expect more
announcements there nothing I can share
publicly yet but it's gonna be good
does anybody have any questions about
Mays idea wonder if like we could do
something cuz people always into
defaults of the HTTP client for things
and they're like I'll cool I'll just get
it from the Gateway you know which
obviously just hammers the available
infrastructure that we have and what if
we could just like have some kind of
thing as a service that you could a
prebuilt same you could deploy in AWS
and have your own gateway I don't know
like a push-button digitalocean droplet
and be good various like yeah we
definitely want as part of this endeavor
we want to make it much easier for
others to run their own gateway and make
it much clearer when you should rely on
the Cape the public like a story okay
and when you should consider saying up
your own and wasn't tipping points for
that decision we definitely want to make
all that a lot clearer for people right
now it's a fake as I got a little busy
there's a public gateway I got a gateway
Kyle Flint gotta get so yeah and that we
know that we want to clear up that
messaging so you just start serving
adverts and their responses to the
Gateway right not at first but kidding
yeah I'm doing a better job of serving
up hey this this lookup is taking a long
time
sorry like either the infrastructure is
overloaded or the block you've requested
is no longer being provided maybe
someone close their laptop you should
consider trying this request again using
ipfs but rather than just kind of
showing a spinner for 10 minutes
there's also an advert for an education
opportunity do you not know how to set
up hearing gateway have you considered
Pro to school drifting towards that Bert
Jim pick stepping up to the demo plate
he's always got good stuff to show okay
I don't know this is good but oh yeah
okay I'm gonna share my screen
one of my skis
ok you should see a lot of black windows
here so what I have here is basically a
built a version of go ipfs from the
master branch but I've added when you
run when you run
ipfs there's a little hidden command
that nobody knows about was the ipfs
repo a lot no log log log till so yeah
you can see there's a bunch of stuff
that gets you can tail and see all these
little JSON events they get spit up by
your ipfs statement which is not really
useful to anybody but you can hook up a
program to read all those things and so
what I've done is I've added some extra
events and then I've created a little
program called ipfs spy it's a node.js
program and so when I go to download
something so I'll just I could just
clear up my so I'm going to download
Doc's type EFS IO if you watch a screen
here while it's this is I'm gonna get it
and then I can watch what's going on in
my IVFs node so you can see this is the
the CID I'm trying to download and it
started by doing some DHT queries for
basically the content behind darkstar
ipfs tayo and it hasn't successfully
completed like it's done these DHT
queries but they've timed out in ten
seconds but
found some DHT things it would show the
peers here but also there's a lot of
random peers connecting to my node all
the time and you can see this this line
here advertise want list to you so many
incoming peers so peers are always
trying to connect to the node because
they're trying to DHT queries so if
every time a appear connects it'll say
hey do you have this thing I'm searching
for which is the docks type EFS tile so
even though the the DNS queries are not
succeeding so it's going to try DNS
query here if I wait long enough
something I'll connect so yeah you can
see two peers here just connected and
I'm downloading from them you can see
the download stats
hey here's a peer that it found via the
DHT so this is what it found from the
DHT so and you can see it's downloading
things here and you can see down here
it's sort of stuck
so it's going to keep doing DT queries
here and try to find the next block if
you can find it on the network but you
can watch us so you can see the current
state of the the network is a lot of
these DHT queries aren't succeeding so
but you can see it's still downloading
here and but you also see that's
downloading a lot of duplicate blocks so
that's why the spring a lot of effort
downloading things that it already has
so but eventually it's going to hook up
to once it's only downloading pretty
slow here like you can see that the bit
rates but it's downloading from several
peers so this will complete so there's a
lot of stuff going on here these little
stars mean these are the asterisks are
these are the peers that's actively
connected to you at the moment
so it's still downloading from this pier
here why does a slow speed
what is it downloads epoch of blow this
part of the bit swap algorithm and I'm
Dirk had a good ipfs weekly call was it
last week or the week before and he went
over the algorithm and some fixes he's
got for that so I designed a bit swap
algorithm tries to get some duplicate
blocks so okay so I finished the
download so and then it says done up
here when it's done so and I hide these
DHT queries after 30 seconds or so so
but you can see these are all the peers
that were involved and you can see how
many blocks are downloaded for me to
peer so so that's my ipfs spy and all I
can post a link to the source codes hey
Jim what did you have to modify in Gore
PFS did you add additional logging oh
yeah I just added just extra events so
those little JSON things already had a
bunch of it was kicking out but I needed
specific ones in specific places in
order to build this particular user
interface but I didn't actually modify
any of the actual actual operation of I
professor just added extra little hooks
who kicks out little events in certain
points so it seems like it might be
harmless and fold that back into master
yeah yeah I didn't really I sort of
learning the coda as I was going along
so I just sprayed these all these events
all over the place I think to put them
in there is a performance impact logging
a lot of stuff so I would I would do the
the fine-grained logging I'm doing I
want to have it sort of like dynamically
enabled only when you're displaying the
UI because it's gonna slow things down
I'm probably like 1% but you know I
still wouldn't want to have the
performance impact so I think it'd be
something to be considered carefully yes
yes that just jessica has a hand
I just this is this is super nifty and I
think even just from like an
introduction 2d web sort of perspective
seeing this happen I think could be
incredibly useful to two people who are
really just sort of learning how this
works I mean we can we explain this
conceptually but seeing it my my line
like that is is really interesting and I
don't know you know sort of Terry what
your thoughts are but some sort of some
sort of tutorial based around this could
be very very interesting to discuss
later on yeah anybody's familiar with
the like BitTorrent clients a lot of
them have like a really good view
because you're sitting waiting for the
illegal movie you're downloading you can
see all the different peers and you're
connecting to it it's fascinating if you
don't really know who you're connecting
to but you know you can sort of see that
something is going on under the covers
well yeah and at least I have the
visibility is to like why is something
as being slow which is which is a
problem that you know and I think Araki
I Eric you just posted something like
about this in the chat is this an
indicator of why something is slowing
down its its visibility I think there's
probably a lot of really cool stuff we
could do with this yeah I'd put it under
the umbrella term of observability and
making sure we have that in there and
like we could maybe add a little bit
more than just a simple download status
indicator on the on the terminal and for
things like web UI you can get really
crazy with in terms of the amount of you
can like drill down and see you know
what that's what I'm downloading from
you know how just focus on that one
hello would it be an option to carry out
any measurement work based on that all
right to understand a little bit the
behavior and where things are getting
slowed down or stock oh yeah the reason
I did this is because I'm working on the
tested for team and that's the primary
task we're going to be doing is like
figuring out how to
test all of these things at scale like
spin up thousands of nodes and have them
talking together in a controlled and
manner and then measuring everything
that interested there's so much data
it's that's a challenge yeah I know but
even with this I mean you can get a
first good insight of where where is
some problem where is the problem in the
process now yeah like this is nice
because just real time you can see oh
this tried DHT queries they're not
returning you know you can see I was
just doing bit swap with these different
peers it's like oh you resolve this DHT
one bits not talking to it like you know
there's I didn't even add everything I
could add into this but it becomes
difficult to because it's just like
there's so much information inside the
system like how do you surface it into
the UI it's already a little bit too
confusing further uninitiated to give
you it but yeah it's a challenging you
accent issue I would say but it's great
that all the data is there and that you
can just tap into it and surface it
they got the link and posted the source
code so anybody can just done you have
to build a modified version of I P FS
better did you do a video demo of this
recently somewhere like I posted it in
our internal slack but I didn't
circulate it
totally on the internet now we have two
minutes left on the cool has anyone else
got anything to share I want to hear
more about Eric's devices storing like
data on the network from my PFS I just
tell us about it really cool yeah
absolutely
so right now it's very batch I have
let's say these are little strap-on
motion trackers so I got 11 Oklahoma
they go on various parts of my joints
and they're streaming at 10 frames a
second and I was thinking about okay
that's reasonable for sockets however
I'm reduced the difficulty of my problem
by saying like okay I will just update
ipfs in like big chunks of data like
here's a full minute of data up on the
network here's a full hour of data up on
the network and then parse it out that
way because I didn't really know the
best way to do real-time kind of work
but that's another office hours kind of
question but yeah the goal is to take
real-time sensor wearable data from
whether it's heart rate position or the
sort and then pipe that into services
that you're running on your local
machine and have sharing with other
notes that you would like to interact
with whether that are whether they're
providing you with services or whether
that are your mom who wants to know
you're alive and yeah that's the goal I
don't have a presentation or anything
today so any questions about sounds cool
believe
present on it in the future yes of
course and if anyone wants to know about
hardware electronics or lower level
stack area I love to talk about it
it is a subject very dear to our hearts
building a bridge cool it is half past
the end of our show Jule time for the 5s
weekly cooling for the 16th of September
thank you very much everyone
I will see you next week